ARA Identifier (AID)
================
---
Request For Comments: 0000

Author(s): Joseph Werle, Prashanth Balasubramani

Category: Identity Management

Date: June 2018

---


## 0. Abstract
The ARA Identity is the identity management module implemented on the ARA network. It conforms to W3C Credentials Communtiy Group DID specification [1]

## 1.Status

This RFC is under _active development and consideration_.

## 2. Introduction
AID is an identifier which is used to identify an entity in the ARA network. It is based on the DID specification defined by w3c-ccg. Each entity in the ARA network is identified by its AID. Each AID points to a DID Document which contains a set of service endpoints which can be used to interact with the entity. The main principle employed in ARA Identity is the use of distributed ledger technology (DLT) which eliminates the need for neither a centralized authority nor a single point of failure.

## 3. Background & Motivation

## 4. ARA Identity
ARA Identity is the identity management module to create & manage identities in the ARA network.

### 4.1 Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs)

#### Sample Identifiers : -

#### DID
``
did:ara:123456789abcdefghi
``

#### DID Document
```
{
  "@context": "https://w3id.org/did/v1",
  "id": "did:ara:123456789abcdefghi",
  "publicKey": [{
    "id": "did:ara:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1",
    "type": "RsaVerificationKey2018",
    "owner": "did:ara:123456789abcdefghi",
    "publicKeyPem": "-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY...END PUBLIC KEY-----\r\n"
  }],
  "authentication": [{
    // this key can be used to authenticate as DID ...9938
    "type": "RsaSignatureAuthentication2018",
    "publicKey": "did:ara:123456789abcdefghi#keys-1"
  }],
  "service": [{
    "type": "ExampleService",
    "serviceEndpoint": "https://ara.com/endpoint/8377464"
  }]
}
```

### 4.2 Ethereum

#### 4.2.1 Ethereum Account

##### 1. create

##### 2. load

#### 4.2.2 Ethereum Entropy

#### Ethereum Wallet

##### 1. load

### 4.3 Identity Management Methods

#### 4.3.1 create

#### 4.3.2 archive

#### 4.3.3 resolve

## 5. Real World Example

TODO

## 6. Drawbacks

TODO

## 7. Alternatives

TODO

## 8. Adoption Strategy

TODO

## 9. Unresolved Questions

TODO

## 10 Security Considerations

TODO

## 11. References

* [1]: did-spec - https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-spec
