ARA Network Secrets (ANS)
=========================

---
Request For Comments: 0000
---
Author(s): Joseph Werle, Prashanth Balasubramani
---
Category: Security
---
Date: May, 2018
---

## 0. Abstract

_*ARA Network Secrets*_, or *ANS* describes an on-disk format of
network keys for ARA network nodes [1] enabling peer discovery and
authentication based on asymmetric cryptography. _*ARA Network Nodes*_
generate network secrets and make their public keys available to
interested entities.

## 1.Status

This RFC is under _active development and consideration_.

## 2. Introduction

_*ARA Network Secrets*_ enable secure discovery and a secure relationship
with entities interested in interacting with network nodes. Network
nodes emerging into existence issue and offer their public keys to
interested entities in the network.

## 3. Background & Motivation

TODO

## 4. ARA Network Secrets

TODO

### 4.1. Shared Secret

Network secrets are created from a shared secret key. This secret key is
shared between the network node who created it and the peers in the
network who want to communicate with it.

### 4.2 Encryption Key

Shared secret keys are used to derive an encryption key when
encrypting or decrypting public and secret keystores found in *ARA
Network Secrets Files*.

An encryption key can be computed by taking a 16 byte BLAKE2b hash of
the shared secret key, or more formally:

```js
key = blake2b(secret, 16)
```

### 4.3 Discovery Key

TODO

### 4.4. Key Pairs

TODO

#### 4.4.1 Private

TODO

#### 4.4.2 Public

TODO

### 4.5 Encryption

TODO

### 4.5.1 AES

TODO

#### Cipher

TODO

#### Digest

TODO

### 4.6 JSON Keystore

TODO

### 4.7 Binary Format

TODO

#### 4.7.1 Private

TODO

#### 4.7.2 Public

TODO

### 4.8 Secrets Handshake

TODO

## 5. Real World Example

TODO

## 6. Drawbacks

TODO

## 7. Alternatives

TODO

## 8. Adoption Strategy

TODO

## 9. Unresolved Questions

TODO

## 10 Security Considerations

TODO

## 11. References

* [1]: *ARA Network Nodes* - https://github.com/arablocks/ara-network/tree/master/rfc/rfc0002.md
