ARA Secret Storage
==================

---
Request For Comments: 0000
---
Author(s): Joseph Werle
---
Category: Security
---
Date: June, 2018
---

## 0. Abstract

**ARA Secret Storage** defines an encryption scheme and JSON format for
representing encrypted secret information in a structured manner. This is
similar to _Web3's Secret Storage Definition_ [1] used for storing the secret
keys for an Ethereum wallet protected by a password.

## 1. Status

This RFC is under _active development and consideration_.

## 2. Introduction

_ARA Secret Storage_ enables the boxing of secrets into a structured format
suitable for transmission or persistence on disk while containing enough
information to be decrypted without revealing the encrypted secrets. Secret
storages pave way for securing information in untrusted environments.

## 3. Background & Motivation

Key management in cryptosystems involve the creation, management, and protection
of secret keys stored in structured format. Secret storages for secret keys,
called keystores, are password protected and usually derived with a
_Key Derivation Function (KDF)_ [2]. Keystores can be stored in untrusted user
space file systems, third-party databases, and services like AWS S3. The
representation of a keystore should be self-contained such that a
decrypting party only needs to know an encryption key, or passphrase.

This RFC outlines a simplified approach to secret storage using symmetric
encryption without a _KDF_. Encryption output is in JSON format. The JSON storage
format includes enough metadata about a ciphertext for decryption to occur
without prior knowledge of cipher and HMAC parameters.

## 4. Secret Storage

This section outlines parameters, an encryption scheme, and the JSON format
associated with _ARA Secret Storage_.

### 4.1 Terminology

The rest of the sections that follow make use of abbreviated forms of the
following terminology outlined in this section.

* _**HMAC**_ - Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code [3]
* _**MAC**_ - Message Authentication Code [4]
* _**IV**_ - 128-bit Unique Initialization Vector [5]
* _**K**_ - 128-bit Encryption Key [6]
* _**S**_ - Encrypted Secret Storage Document (JSON)
* _**m**_ - Plain text message [7]

### 4.2 AES Assumptions

This RFC makes assumptions about the AES algorithms used and the size of the
_IV_ and _K_ variables. This RFC assumes `aes-128-ctr` cipher and `sha1` HMAC
algorithms are used. The _IV_ and _K_ variables are both 128-bit (16 byte)
vectors.

### 4.3 Initialization Vector

An _IV_ variable should be allocated by the encrypting party and should be a
random 128-bit vector generated from a pseudorandom number generator, or
_PRNG_ [8] [9]. This vector should **never** be reused.

_**Initialization of a 128-bit IV:**_

```
IV = GenerateRandomBytes(16) // in bytes
```

### 4.4 Encryption Key

A _K_ variable should be allocated by the encrypting party and should be
a 128-bit vector.

_**Initialization of a 128-bit K vector with the string "kinkajou" [10]
written to the first 8 bytes:**_

```
K = AllocateBuffer(16) // in bytes
// Write "kinkajou" of length 8 to 'K' at offset 0
WriteBuffer(K, "kinkajou", 0, 8)
```

### 4.5 Encryption

A message _m_ can be encrypted with key _K_ and an initialization vector
_IV_ and represented as a JSON document. Encryption of _m_ produces output
suitable for the decryption of _m_ with _K_ without prior knowledge of _IV_.
Encryption output produces a HMAC digest from the cipher text which can
be used to verify the integrity and authenticity of _m_.

```
m = "secret message"
S = Encrypt(m, K, IV)
```

#### Procedure

This section outlines the procedure for encrypting message _m_ with key
_K_ and initialization vector _IV_. It ignores properties like `id` and
`version` for brevity (_See Section 4.7 Storage Format_).

1. Generate randomly unique _IV_ of 16 bytes for encryption

```
IV = GenerateRandomBytes(16)
```

2. Generate key vector _K_ of 16 bytes

```
K = Generate16ByteEncryptionKeyFromString("kinkajou")
```

3. Generate cipher text _c_ from message _m_

```
c = CipherText(K, m)
```

4. Generate HMAC _mac_ from cipher text _c_

```
mac = HMAC(K, c)
```

5. Return secret storage _S_ JSON document containing the following properties:

_See Section 4.7 Storage Format_

* Cipher text _c_ as hex string
* Cipher parameters including initialization vector _IV_
* Cipher algorithm
* HMAC digest algorithm
* HMAC _mac_ digest from cipher text _c_

### 4.6 Decryption

A secret storage _S_ can be decoded and decrypted into message _m_ given
only an encryption key _K_.

#### Procedure

This section outlines the procedure for decoding and decrypting a
message _m_ with only an encryption key _K_. It ignores properties like `id`
and `version` for brevity (_See Section 4.7 Storage Format_).

1. Derive initialization vector _IV_ from secret storage _S_

```
IV = BytesFromHexString(storage.crypto.cipherparams.iv)
```

2. Derive (de-)cipher and HMAC algorithms from secret storage _S_

_Assumes `aes-128-ctr` and `sha1`_

```
HMACAlgorithm = storage.crypto.digest
CipherAlgorithm = storage.crypto.cipher
```

3. Compute HMAC _mac_ of cipher text _c_ from secret storage _S_

```
c = storage.crypto.ciphertext
mac = HMAC(c)
```

4. Compare computed HMAC _mac_ with value present in secret storage _S_
   for integrity and authenticity

```
if (0 != Compare(mac, storage.crypto.mac)) {
  ThrowException()
}
```

5. Compute and return message _m_ with (de-)cipher

### 4.7 Storage Format

A message _m_ encrypted into secret storage _S_ as a JSON document is
described by this section of the RFC. _S_ is a JSON document object
specifying properties used by a decrypting party to allow for decryption
without explicit knowledge of the cipher and HMAC algorithms used for
encryption, including the _IV_. This section details the specification
of the properties used in the storage format.

#### `.id`

Upon encryption, an `id` property is generated. The value of this
property is a _Version 4 UUID_ [11]. This value is random and depends on a
_PRNG_.

_**A newly generated V4 UUID:**_
```
{
  "id": "e4a5c03b-79c0-4d23-a2d7-46cb6325966b"
}
```

#### `.version`

This field is reserved for a 32-bit value represented as a hex string
indicating the version of the encrypting party. Decrypting parties can
use this field in a strict setting to ensure decryption occurs at a
specific version. Library implementers can define this field to be the
version of the code base.

_**Version 0.3.1 of a library specified as a "version" property:**_
```
{
  "version": "0000000000000301"
}
```

#### `.crypto`

This field is a top level object for cipher and HMAC parameters.

```
{
  "crypto": { ... }
}
```

##### `.crypto.cipherparams`

This field is a top level object for cipher parameters.

```
{
  "crypto": {
    "cipherparams": { ... }
  }
}
```

###### `.crypto.cipherparams.iv`

The 128-bit initialization vector _IV_ as a hex string used for encryption.

```
{
  "crypto": {
    "cipherparams": {
      "iv": "e5e7a047fa3171d208bdec0f32dc6d38"
    }
  }
}
```

#### `.crypto.ciphertext`

This field contains the message _m_ encrypted as cipher text represented
as a hex string.

```
{
  "crypto": {
    "ciphertext": "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"
  }
}
```

#### `.crypto.cipher`

This field specifies the cipher algorithm used during encryption.

```
{
  "crypto": {
    "cipher": "aes-128-ctr"
  }
}
```

#### `.crypto.digest`

This field specifies the HMAC digest algorithm used during encryption.

```
{
  "crypto": {
    "digest": "sha1"
  }
}
```

#### `.crypto.mac`

This field specifies the MAC generated by the HMAC digest algorithm. It
is the result of a `sha1` HMAC digest of the cipher text. In a strict setting,
decrypting parties can compare this value to a computed HMAC digest of the
cipher text present in the document.

```
{
  "crypto": {
    "mac": "6fe874b6fca1a18543fd0aec9b63894e62b601f9"
  }
}
```

### 4. Test Vectors

This section of the RFC briefly specifies test vectors for implementers
and clarity around expected input and output.

**Details:**

* _**IV**_ - `c2975f81fd07a36c03d5fa2e977e46a3`
* _**K**_ - `6b696e6b616a6f756b696e6b616a6f75` (`"kinkajoukinkajou"`)
* _**m**_ - `616c696365626f62` (`"alicebob"`)

```json
{
   "id": "d06a4b07-79a7-49d7-9fdd-6c9a603b5e4e",
   "version": "0000000000000301",
   "crypto": {
      "cipherparams": {
         "iv": "c2975f81fd07a36c03d5fa2e977e46a3"
      },
      "ciphertext": "0116dc970a8ae6ad",
      "cipher": "aes-128-ctr",
      "digest": "sha1",
      "mac": "0fa97c5036b57ba4b3bb054539113adab2476dd9"
   }
}
```

## 5. Real World Example

The following is a real world example of a secret storage document
encrypting the message `"alicebob"` with the encryption key
`"kinkajoukinkajou"`. The initialization vector is assumed to be already
randomly generated.

```json
{
   "id": "d06a4b07-79a7-49d7-9fdd-6c9a603b5e4e",
   "version": "0000000000000301",
   "crypto": {
      "cipherparams": {
         "iv": "c2975f81fd07a36c03d5fa2e977e46a3"
      },
      "ciphertext": "0116dc970a8ae6ad",
      "cipher": "aes-128-ctr",
      "digest": "sha1",
      "mac": "0fa97c5036b57ba4b3bb054539113adab2476dd9"
   }
}
```

## 6. Drawbacks

Using this encryption scheme which produces a JSON structure as output requires
usage of a JSON parser for interoperability. While this may not be a
drawback in most scenarios, in limited execution environments one may not have
a JSON parser available as a native feature, or even as a third-party
library. This RFC only specifies `aes-128-ctr` as a cipher and `sha1` as
a HMAC algorithm and doesn't consider other AES cipher modes nor HMAC
algorithms.

## 7. Alternatives

* Roll-you-own secret storage
* Web3 Secret Storage

## 8. Adoption Strategy

Adoption of this RFC should be highly considered _a risk_. This RFC
describes a system for encrypting sensitive secrets for storage in
untrusted environments. The RFC builds on existing standards (AES) and
draws a lot of its stability from it.

## 9. Unresolved Questions

TBD

## 10 Security Considerations

TBD

## 11. References

* [1] - *https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Web3-Secret-Storage-Definition*
* [2] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key_derivation_function*
* [3] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC*
* [4] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Message_authentication_code*
* [5] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Initialization_vector*
* [7] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Key_(cryptography)*
* [7] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plain_text*
* [8] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_number_generator*
* [9] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pseudorandom_generator*
* [10] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kinkajou*
* [11] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier#Version_4_(random)*
