Inter-node Communication
==============

---
Request For Comments: 0000
---
Author(s): Madeline Cameron
---
Category: Interopability
---
Date: June, 2018
---

## 0. Abstract

_**Inter-node Communication (INC)**_ is message-passing protocol to allow ARA nodes to cooperate and only implement what is specifically needed. INC will allow nodes to utilize common nodes like DNS and DHT collectively.

## 1. Status

This RFC is under _active development and consideration_.

## 2. Introduction

**Inter-node Communication** communicates over an IPC protocol (localcast). Localcast has the same interface as an EventEmitter so JavaScript developers should have no trouble picking it up.

### `ping`

`ping` is a message type that all nodes must implement. `ping` is used to find out what nodes exist and are booted on the local system.

When a node receives `ping`, a response is expected in under 5s or else the node will not be counted. The response event should be `pong` and sent on a localcast instantiated with the MD5 of the requesting node's name.

TODO(): Should `ping` only happen when called or should it be periodic (heartbeats)?

### `call`

`call` is a message type that all nodes must implement. `call` is for calling a specified function on the specified node and returning the result. The message should be broadcast on a localcast instantiated with the MD5 of the specified node. It is recommended that developers specifically disallow calls to `stop` unless intended.

### Other types

Other message types can be implemented but nodes are not required to implement them.

## 3. Background & Motivation

* Why are we doing this?

ARA Nodes are stand-alone currently and have no ability to communicate to other nodes to collaborate on work. INC will allow nodes to communicate and use other processes abilities.

* What use cases does it support?

- Allowing nodes to ensure pre-requisite nodes are booted before they are, and use the same instances. For instance, being able to ensure a DHT node is up and then use that DHT node.
- Allowing nodes to use node's function calls and receive information contained within that node

* What is the expected outcome?

- Nodes will be able to communicate what other nodes need to be booted before they can

## 5. Real World Example

```javascript
const localcast = require('localcast')
const md5 = require('md5')

const cast = localcast()

cast.on('ping', ({ name }) => {
  const nodeCast = localcast(md5(name))
  nodeCast.emit('pong', getInstance())
})

```

## 6. Drawbacks

It might not be entirely needed. Lower-order nodes like DHT and DNS could always be booted or nodes could boot their own nodes without regards for others.

Additionally we could build a better ARA Network Node CLI which has this functionality built in.

## 7. Alternatives

I considered using a proper cross-platform compatable IPC library but it was poorly documented and the code quality is quite low. I think localcast will allow us to prototype this node quickly and figure out its usefulness.

Additionally, like I said above, we could have nodes manage their own required nodes without regards for others

## 8. Adoption Strategy

It isn't a breaking change. This change only adds functionality. Developers can choose whether to implement this protocol. If a node doesn't implement this protocol, the node will be invisible to other nodes.

## 9. Unresolved Questions

  - Is this forseen as being helpful?
  - Should this be directly proposed as a modification to ANN itself rather than as a stand-alone node?

## 10. Security Considerations

A rogue process could implement localcast and check what nodes are running locally. After finding out what nodes are running, it could use security issues in those nodes.

Potentially the localcast network could be flooded and slow down calls.

## 11. References

[Localcast](https://github.com/mafintosh/localcast)
