# ARA FARMING PROTOCOL

---
Request For Comments: 0000
---
Author(s): Brandon Plaster, Huy Dao
---
Category: Distributed Services
---
Date: June, 2018
---

## 0. Abstract

ARA Farming Protocol (AFP) provides methods for distributed decentralized services, or decents, in the ARA Network to request work from its peers and determine the specifications of work contracts (i.e. rewards and other service-specific details).

## 1. Status

This RFC is under _active development and consideration_.

## 2. Introduction

AFP defines a set of methods in Javascript and objects in Proto which enable peers of a distributed service to communicate about and define a statement of work for that service. AFP also provides a default implementation using gRPC servers/clients in Javascript.

For a [farmer](#412-farmer), AFP would be used to define that farmer’s minimum accepted rewards for providing a service, as well as other parameters more specific to the service. If a requester wishes to hire a farmer, AFP would handle signing a contract of work and sending a start signal for beginning the work.

For a [requester](#413-requester), AFP would be used to define the maximum reward the requester is willing to give for a service, the number of farmers required, and other parameters specific to the service. AFP would also take in a [matcher](#421-matcher) used to determine the peers. Once a set of peers is determined through the matcher, AFP would handle initiating and signing a contract of work, and sending a start signal to begin the distribution of work.

## 3. Background & Motivation

In the current market, cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin are oftentimes treated more as an investment than a currency. Although these digital assets are high in value, the lack of spending opportunities prevents them from being regularly exchanged for goods and services [[1]](#11-references). 

In distributed services ecosystems, such as torrents, there is oftentimes the issue that there are more leechers (those who take from but do not contribute to a system) than there are seeders (those who support the system through being available to upload files) [[2]](#11-references). This is often attributed to the notion that there is no incentive to seed the network, since once you have the file, you likely do not gain from hosting it [[3]](#11-references).

ARA Farming Protocol enables developers to provide incentives for users to participate in distributed services. Rewarding distributed services facilitates the circulation of tokens and gives a reason for peers to participate in the network. Instead of “mining”, which is generally associated with a task that does not inherently benefit the system, a user can earn tokens through “farming”, or participating in the service. AFP also helps instill trust in the work system by tying services to Ethereum smart contracts, in order to show full transparency when agreeing upon work.

## 4. ARA Farming

This section outlines terminology used throughout this document, as well expected methodologies needed for the protocol.

### 4.1. Terminology

#### 4.1.1. Farming

Performing a service for another peer in the network for a reward.

#### 4.1.2. Farmer

A peer in the network who participates in farming.

#### 4.1.3. Requester

A peer in the network who initiated a request for farmers.

#### 4.1.4. Statement of Work

A set of parameters/options which define a set of work to be rewarded by a specified contract.

```proto
message SOW {
  int32 id = 1;
  string work_unit = 2;
  ARAid requester = 3;
  bytes data = 4;
}
```

#### 4.1.5. Contract

A contract between the requester and the farmer for a specific task to validate that a statement of work has been agreed upon. This could reference an Ethereum smart contract used to distribute rewards and handle staking.

```proto
message Contract {
  int64 id = 1;
  Quote quote = 2;
}
```

The id here can either refer to the address of the smart contract, or some hash that identifies the unique contract for a defined statement of work.

#### 4.1.6. Unit of Work

A service-defined amount of work used to discuss and normalize rewards. 

#### 4.1.7. Proof of Work

A method used to prove that a farmer participating in a task has successfully completed a certain amount of the task.

#### 4.1.8. Quote

The rewards required to complete a unit of work.

```proto
message Quote {
  int64 id = 1;
  int32 per_unit_cost = 2;
  SOW sow = 3;
  ARAid farmer = 4;
}
```

#### 4.1.9. Signatures

Verifiable signatures on a contract from each party to confer that an agreement has been reached. Note: The ARAid message below should be replaced by a more realistic representation of ARAid and a signature.

```proto
message ARAid {
  int64 id = 1;
  int64 signature = 2;
}
```

### 4.2. Interfaces

In order to provide flexibility, this section describes interfaces that can be implemented on a per-service basis.

#### 4.2.1. Matcher

Different service requesters may have different needs when selecting peers, such as selecting the cheapest set, the fastest set, the first set number of peers, etc. To allow for this, each service may implement their own matcher (or use one of a set of predefined matchers) that follows the Matcher interface. This interface describes an object that, given a set of options, selects a subset of peers using a matching strategy specific to the service. This class is notified if a contract is not accepted and when a contract has been confirmed.

```js
class Matcher {
  /**
   * Calls hireFarmerCallback if quote is acceptable
   * @param {messages.Quote} quote
   * @param {function(messages.Contract)} hireFarmerCallback
   */
  //
  considerQuoteOption(quote, hireFarmerCallback) {
    throw new Error('Extended classes must implement considerQuoteOption')
  }

  /**
   * Removes quote from pool of options
   * @param {messages.Quote} quote
   */
  invalidateQuoteOption(quote) {
    throw new Error('Extended classes must implement invalidateQuoteOption')
  }

  /**
   * Called when a contract has been marked as valid and ready to start work
   * @param {messages.Contract} contract
   */
  onHireConfirmed(contract) {
    throw new Error('Extended classes must implement onHireConfirmed')
  }
}
```

#### 4.2.2. Peer Authenticator

Different services may have different needs when authenticating requesters/farmers. To allow for this, each service may implement their own authenticator (or use one of a set of predefined authenticators) that follows the PeerAuthenticator interface. This interface describes an object that, given a set of options, validates that a peer has the rights/authority to request/fulfill a statement of work.

```js
class PeerAuthenticator {
  /**
   * Returns whether a user is valid.
   * @param {messages.ARAid} peer
   * @returns {boolean}
   */
  validatePeer(peer) {
    throw new Error('Extended classes must implement validatePeer.')
  }
}
```

#### 4.2.3. Quote Generator

Different services may have different needs when determining the farmer's quote for an SOW. To allow for this, each service may implement their own quote generator (or use one of a set of predefined quote generators) that follows the QuoteGenerator interface. This interface describes an object that, given an SOW, returns a Quote, and has the capability to validate a contract.

```js
class QuoteGenerator {
  /**
   * Returns a quote given an SOW.
   * @param {messages.SOW} sow
   * @returns {messages.Quote}
   */
  generateQuote(sow) {
    throw new Error('Extended classes must implement generateQuote')
  }

  /**
   * Returns whether a contract is valid
   * @param {messages.Contract} contract
   * @returns {boolean}
   */
  validateContract(contract) {
    throw new Error('Extended classes must implement validateContract')
  }
}
```

#### 4.2.4. Contract Generator

Different services may have different needs when a requester creates a contract. To allow for this, each service may implement their own contract generator (or use one of a set of predefined contract generators) that follows the ContractGenerator interface. This interface describes an object that, given an Quote, returns a Contract, and has the capability to validate a contract.

```js
class ContractGenerator {
  /**
   * Returns whether a contract is valid.
   * @param {messages.Contract} contract
   * @returns {boolean}
   */
  validateContract(contract) {
    throw new Error('Extended classes must implement validateContract.')
  }

  /**
   * Generates a contract for quote
   * @param {messages.Quote} quote
   * @returns {messages.Contract}
   */
  generateContract(quote) {
    throw new Error('Extended classes must implement generateContract.')
  }
}
```

### 4.3. Methods

#### 4.3.1. External

These methods are intended to aid in the exchange of information between a requester and a farmer.

```proto
service RFP {
  rpc GetQuote(SOW) returns(Quote);
  rpc AwardContract(Contract) returns(Contract);
}
```

##### 4.3.1.1. getQuote(SOW)

Returns the quote of a farmer given a statement of work.

##### 4.3.1.2. awardContract(Contract)

Sends farmer a reference to a signed contract. Expects a counter-signed contract in return.

#### 4.3.2. Internal Requester

These methods are intended for aiding a Requester.

##### 4.3.2.1. connectToFarmer(options)

Connects to a Farmer Server for communicating.

##### 4.3.2.2. processFarmers

Iterates through an array of Farmers and gets quotes from them for the defined SOW. 

#### 4.3.3. Internal Farmer

##### 4.3.3.1. broadcastFarmer(options)

Creates a Farmer Server (using gRPC) and broadcasts its availablity to work as a function of a set of options.

## 5. Real World Example

### 5.1. A Decentralized Content Distribution Service

In the case of content distribution, the content requester would first find a set of farmers that have the specific content. The requester would then pass those farmers to AFP. AFP would then ask each peer their cost per unit-of-work (for example, the cost the farmer requires to deliver a GB of data). If the cost is less than or equal to the requester’s maximum amount they are willing to pay, then the requester will employ the farmer. 

#### 5.1.1. Requester Setup

The following example simulates and connects to 10 farmers, then hires up to 5 farmers who charge <= 10 Ara per MB. Farmer Authenticator considers user 2 as an invalid farmer.

```js 
/*
    Example: connect to 10 farmers, then hire up to
    5 farmers who charge <= 10 Ara per MB. Requester Authenticator
    considers user 10057 as invalid requester.
*/

// Requester
const contractGen = new ExampleContractGenerator(104)
const matcher = new ExampleMatcher(10, 5)
const farmAuth = new ExampleFarmerAuth(2)

const requesterSig = new messages.ARAid()
requesterSig.setId(10056)
requesterSig.setSignature(11111)

const sow = new messages.SOW()
sow.setId(2)
sow.setWorkUnit('MB')
sow.setRequester(requesterSig)

const requester = new Requester(sow, matcher, farmAuth, contractGen)
requester.processFarmers(farmerConnections)
```

##### 5.1.1.1. Example Matcher

```js
/**
 * Example Matcher which hires a maximum number of workers for a maximum cost
 */
class ExampleMatcher extends Matcher {
  constructor(maxCost, maxWorkers) {
    super()
    this.maxCost = maxCost
    this.maxWorkers = maxWorkers
    this.quoteOptions = new Map()
    this.hiredWorkerQuoteOptions = new Map()
    this.reserveWorkers = []
  }

  considerQuoteOption(quote, hireFarmerCallback) {
    const farmerId = quote.getFarmer().getId()
    this.quoteOptions.set(farmerId, { quote, cb: hireFarmerCallback })

    if (quote.getPerUnitCost() > this.maxCost) return

    if (this.hiredWorkerQuoteOptions.size < this.maxWorkers) {
      this.hireFarmer(farmerId)
    } else {
      this.reserveWorkers.unshift(farmerId)
    }
  }

  invalidateQuoteOption(quote) {
    const farmerId = quote.getFarmer().getId()
    this.hiredWorkerQuoteOptions.delete(farmerId)

    if (this.hiredWorkerQuoteOptions.size < this.maxWorkers) this.hireFromReserve()
  }

  hireFromReserve() {
    if (this.reserveWorkers.length > 0) {
      const reserveWorker = this.reserveWorkers.pop()
      this.hireFarmer(reserveWorker)
    }
  }

  hireFarmer(farmerId) {
    const quoteOption = this.quoteOptions.get(farmerId)
    this.hiredWorkerQuoteOptions.set(farmerId, quoteOption)
    quoteOption.cb()
  }

  onHireConfirmed(contract) {
    console.log(`Requester: Contract ${contract.getId()} signed by farmer ${contract.getQuote().getFarmer().getId()}`)
  }
}
```

##### 5.1.1.2. Example Contract Generator

```js
class ExampleContractGenerator extends ContractGenerator {
  constructor(id) {
    super()
    this.id = id
  }

  validateContract(contract) {
    if (contract.getId() == this.id) return true
    return false
  }

  generateContract(quote) {
    const contract = new messages.Contract()
    contract.setId(this.id)
    contract.setQuote(quote)
    return contract
  }
}
```

##### 5.1.1.3. Example Farmer Validator

```js
class ExampleFarmerAuth extends PeerAuthenticator {
  constructor(badFarmerId) {
    super()
    this.badFarmerId = badFarmerId
  }

  validatePeer(peer) {
    const farmerId = peer.getId()
    if (farmerId == this.badFarmerId) {
      console.log(`Requester: Invalid farmer ${farmerId}`)
      return false
    }
    return true
  }
}
```

#### 5.1.2. Farmer Setup

In this example, a farmer 3 broadcasts their availability on port 50051 and sets their price to 6. Farmer 3 will not take requests from peer 10057.
```js
const requestAuth = new ExampleRequesterAuth(10057)
const port = `localhost:50051`
const price = 6

const farmerSig = new messages.ARAid()
farmerSig.setId(3)
farmerSig.setSignature(1234)

const quoteGenerator = new ExampleQuoteGenerator(price, farmerSig)

// Generate Server
const farmer = new Farmer(i, quoteGenerator, requestAuth)
broadcastFarmer(farmer, port)
```

##### 5.1.2.1. Example Quote Generation

```js
/**
 * Example quoter which gives back a specific cost for a farmer
 */
class ExampleQuoteGenerator extends QuoteGenerator {
  constructor(price, farmerSig) {
    super()
    this.price = price
    this.farmerSig = farmerSig
  }

  generateQuote(sow) {
    const quote = new messages.Quote()
    quote.setId(1)
    quote.setFarmer(this.farmerSig)
    quote.setPerUnitCost(this.price)
    quote.setSow(sow)

    return quote
  }

  validateContract(contract) {
    const quote = contract.getQuote()
    if (quote.getPerUnitCost() == this.price) return true
    return false
  }
}
```

##### 5.1.2.2 Example Requester Validation

```js
class ExampleRequesterAuth extends PeerAuthenticator {
  constructor(badRequesterId) {
    super()
    this.badRequesterId = badRequesterId
  }

  validatePeer(peer) {
    const requesterId = peer.getId()
    if (requesterId == this.badRequesterId) {
      console.log(`Farmer: Invalid requester ${requesterId}`)
      return false
    }
    return true
  }
}
```

## 6. Drawbacks

There are many methods for determining cost in an open market, so any limitation on how cost is determined may result in a direct or indirect impact on the market itself. In this RFC, on a per-contract basis, the requester asks for a single non-updateable bid for a statement-of-work from each farmer. This gives an advantage to the requester because it allows them to choose a lower cost farmer (even if the requester was initially willing to pay more). It also does not allow the farmer to adjust their bid in real-time for the current contract, nor does it allow the farmer to compare their bid with the bids of other farmers for the current contract. The farmer, however, can adjust their bid prior to the next work request, and through AFP, can check to see the cost of nearby peers to stay competitive. This means that this cost determination method should have no significant impact on the larger market. 

## 7. Alternatives

An alternative to a single bid system would be to have a third party be the moderator of a bid, such as is used in real-time bidding with advertising. 

Another alternative would be to have a public marketplace where farmers and requesters list their service requests/offers, and use this marketplace to find workers/work.

## 8. Adoption Strategy

ARA Farming Protocol is hosted on Github, under AraBlocks organization, and distributed as an open source project along with other ARA core components. AFP is not a required component for using ARA, but is used for AFS and DCDN.

## 9. Unresolved Questions

### 9.1. How would contracts without defined ends (such as file storage) use AFP?

These sort of contracts could be set to deliver rewards in discretized intervals (such as a monthly basis). The service could be setup to renegotiate contracts at these intervals based on current market costs. Guaranteeing uninterrupted service would be the responsibility of the developer of the service. 

### 9.2. How would AFP deter farmers/requesters from gaming the system?

If it is possible for farmers to request the bids of other farmers through AFP, then it is possible that farmers could simply underbid their neighbors to guarantee that they receive the work. While this is possible, it is really a question of the market (scarcity of work vs. scarcity of farmers) if this will actually be problem.  

## 10 Security Considerations

TBD

## 11. References

[1] - Kantchev, G., Russolillo, S., & Whittall, C. (2017, December 03). Bitcoin Is the World's Hottest Currency, but No One's Using It. Retrieved from https://www.wsj.com/articles/bitcoin-is-the-worlds-hottest-currency-but-no-ones-using-it-1512142187

[2] - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leech_(computing)#P2P_networks

[3] - http://www.bittorrent.org/bittorrentecon.pdf
