ARA Network Nodes
=================

---
Request For Comments: 0000
---
Author(s): Joseph Werle
---
Category: Interoperability, API
---
Date: June, 2018
---

## 0. Abstract

_*ARA Network Nodes*_ are _startable_ and _stopable_  _**Node.js**_ [1]
services that interact with the _ARA Network_ [2]. They are invoked with the
`ara-network-node` (or `ann`) [3] command line interface, or programmatically
as a module. This RFC describes the configuration and module interface for
ARA Network Nodes.

## 1. Status

This RFC is under _active development and consideration_.

## 2. Introduction

_*ARA Network Nodes*_ provide distinct services to the ARA Network. They
are decentralized, discoverable, and open source. Entities emerging as
network nodes can offer compute, storage, and access to network
participants without a central authority. This document describes how to
configure and implement a network node.

## 3. Background & Motivation

Network nodes performing some duty in the _ARA Network_ should be
invokable with a clear programmatic or command line interface. This RFC
defines a specification for network node implementers to become
interoperable with the _ARA Network Node_ API interface. Network nodes
can be consumed as module code or invoked with a command line interface,
often through `ann(1)`.

## 4. ARA Network Node

### 4.1 Runtime Configuration

_Runtime Configuration_ [4] is made possible through a `.ararc` file. The
format of this file may be _INI_ [5] or _JSON_.

#### Network Node Configuration

Network node configuration is possible through runtime configuration by
defining the `network.node.<type>` section with properties.

In _INI_ format for a contrived `ping-pong` service, this may look like:

```ini
[network.node.ping-pong]
port = 8080
```

or in _JSON_

```json
{
  "network": {
    "node": {
      "ping-pong": {
        "port": 8080
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### 4.2 Module Interface

The following asynchronous interface functions start, stop, and
configure an _Ara Network Node_ service. They are exported by the module
and should return a `Promise` that resolves to some value.

#### `node.start(argv)`

Never called before `configure()`. Program will fail with a fatal error if
`start()` does not return `true` indicating a successful start of the
service.

#### `node.stop(argv)`

Called when the program receives a signal to exit. The service should
shutdown and dispose of any resources used during the lifetime of the
service.

#### `node.configure(opts, program)`

If _runtime configuration_ (`.ararc`) can be resolved and defines
options for the network node service, they will be passed directly to
this function.

Consider the following _INI_ file configuring a `dns-discovery` network
node which is given to the `configure()` function.

```ini
[network.node.dns-discovery]
domain = ara.local
multicast = true
ttl = 3000
```

#### `node.getInstance(argv)`

Called when a reference to the instance the network node controls is
needed, such as life cycle events, or emitted errors.

## 5. Real World Example

In this section we demonstrate a simple TCP server that writes `pong`
to the client when it receives `ping`. If the name of this service were
`ara-network-node-ping-pong` and in the `NODE_PATH`, this service is
invokable by running the `ara-network-node` (or `ann`) command:

```sh
$ ann -t ping-pong --port 8080
```

A simple module implementation can be seen below.

```js
const net = require('net')
const conf = { port: 0 }
let server = null

module.exports = { getInstance, configure, start, stop }

async function start(argv) {
  if (server) { return false }

  server = net.createServer(onconnection)
  server.listen(conf.port, onlisten)
  server.on('error', onerror)

  return true

  function onerror(err) {
    console.error("error:", err.stack || err)
  }

  function onconnection(socket) {
    socket.on('data', (buffer) => {
      if ('ping' == buffer.toString('utf8')) {
        socket.write(Buffer.from('pong'))
        socket.end()
      }
    })
  }

  function onlisten() {
    const { port } = server.address()
    console.log("Service listening on port: %s", port)
  }
}

async function stop(argv) {
  if (server) {
    server.close()
    await new Promise((resolve) => server.close(resolve))
    server = null
    return true
  } else {
    return false
  }
}

async function configure(opts, program) {
  conf = opts
  if (null != program.argv.port) {
    conf.port = program.argv.port
  }
}

async function getInstance(argv) {
  return server
}
```

## 6. Drawbacks

This RFC explicitly excludes other programming languages and
environments by defining an interface for _Node.js_ applications.

## 7. Alternatives

None at the time of writing.

## 8. Adoption Strategy

Conform network service to the API specification detailed in this
document to be interoperable with the _ARA Network_.

## 9. Unresolved Questions

TBD

## 10 Security Considerations

TBD

## 11. References

* [1] - *https://nodejs.org/en/about*
* [2] - *https://github.com/AraBlocks/ara-network*
* [3] - *https://github.com/AraBlocks/ara-network#ara-network-node1*
* [4] - *https://github.com/arablocks/ara-runtime-configuration*
* [5] - *https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/INI_file*
